David Schaich (he): Okay, we can get underway with the final bit of lecture before the break.  Hopefully this microphone will be stable, despite misbehaving a bit just now, before I started the recording.
David Schaich (he): Despite having to restart the whole system, we are able to
David Schaich (he): get under way
not too long after the hour, on
David Schaich (he): approximately the first day of spring,
David Schaich (he): for which the six-digit code will be
David Schaich (he): 8, 1, 0, 5, 7, 3.
David Schaich (he): Before we get underway, I want to make a note of one thing I keep forgetting to mention
David Schaich (he): (in part because we were rushed out of the room for an exam yesterday),
David Schaich (he): which is that the solutions to the homework have been on the Canvas site since last week.
David Schaich (he): Individual feedback should get back to you imminently, either later today or tomorrow at the latest.
David Schaich (he): So a couple of fun things that we can discuss in the on Thursday morning.
David Schaich (he): I want to wrapping up dynamic cycles and efficiency. and perhaps all. I hope it's not something else for you to play with it during the
David Schaich (he): in addition to the sample exams that are also have been on campus for several weeks now.
David Schaich (he): but picking up where
David Schaich (he): he left off in a bit of a rush. At the end of
David Schaich (he): yesterday morning we were
David Schaich (he): going into quantum statistics which we should have
David Schaich (he): wrap up today.
David Schaich (he): Do finish this with time to spare. It might take a bit of a preview. You can see where the high quantum gases, but the both of that should be saved after the break. So that do we have to
David Schaich (he): try to remember
exactly where you are
David Schaich (he): over those few weeks.
David Schaich (he): It's a reminder of how some statistics from what we have been doing.
David Schaich (he): rather than computing a single critical partition function. raising them to the power of the number of particles, and then trying to correct what we've been doing
David Schaich (he): all the way since we introduced the
for ensemble
David Schaich (he): in quantum statistics. The microstates are defined. I something over all possible
David Schaich (he): energy levels which are taken to be discrete.
David Schaich (he): and within each
David Schaich (he): occupation numbers where there are 2 distinct classes of what a particle is characterized by different possible occupation numbers
David Schaich (he): who zones
David Schaich (he): where the occupation number in each energy level
by hill.
David Schaich (he): Nothing.
The individual.
David Schaich (he): you know, that this gives me grand canonical partition function.
It was
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): all over all these energy. Well.
David Schaich (he): times the geometric, still
David Schaich (he): regular times. the value of the energy for the corresponding energy level. minus mu, the chemical potential
David Schaich (he): in order for the geometric series to converge. We
David Schaich (he): needed to demand that the chemical potential is less than every year energy level. The value of the energy in every energy level which is generally going to be a guaranteed for natural systems
David Schaich (he): where you're taking the energy
David Schaich (he): now negative and the natural chemical potential is negative. So that is what we found when we got up to yesterday.
David Schaich (he): Same computation.
the other classic part of those fermions, with the only possible occupation, numbers
David Schaich (he): or 0, and one energy level can either be occupied or unoccupied in multiple occupancy. He's not allowed due to a feature of quantum mechanics rather than
David Schaich (he): any sort of physical.
David Schaich (he): So any questions about what we saw yesterday. the what we got up to before we
David Schaich (he): calculation that
David Schaich (he): so i'm, not seeing any
David Schaich (he): sign of concern. So the same approach to calculating the
all the occupation numbers for all the energy levels
David Schaich (he): we will go through even more quickly.
David Schaich (he): You know the occupation.
David Schaich (he): What this will give us is
David Schaich (he): a distribution.
David Schaich (he): No, it is very direct statistics
David Schaich (he): contrast to an actual Austin statistics of classical particles with discrete energy levels.
David Schaich (he): as we did.
David Schaich (he): We consider it first, a system that just has a single energy level
David Schaich (he): label, that is. E. 0, then the grand canonical, proficient function for the system just like the
David Schaich (he): this is some of our microstates.
David Schaich (he): Each microstate has some number of particles in this energy level. so
David Schaich (he): number of particles corresponds to the occupation number of
David Schaich (he): uniquely every microstate. There are only 2 possibilities.
David Schaich (he): One. yeah.
you all
David Schaich (he): exponential factor.
David Schaich (he): being the same as before Microsoft energy. It's just that single number of particles that are in this. It's just that in the energy level.
David Schaich (he): when that that number of particles is 0, the
David Schaich (he): yeah. there is the answer for a single energy level
David Schaich (he): and generalizing to the arbitrary.
This comfortable number of discrete energy levels
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): possibly infinite, cut off.
David Schaich (he): Yeah. an economical, proficient function, his Majesty. So over the Oh. one of these energy levels
David Schaich (he): of that same exponential factory. My name is Hi is the
David Schaich (he): Microsoft Energy. which is now generalizes to the all the energy energy for this energy level as the corresponding occupation number.
David Schaich (he): Similarly for
David Schaich (he): particle number. Yes.
David Schaich (he): comes along with the chemical potential that just counts the number of particles occupy the energy level of the occupation number. and
David Schaich (he): as before, this
David Schaich (he): energy is a exponential of some of the each of those exponentials depends only on a single value of L. A single occupation number.
David Schaich (he): Distribute them. Hello! All the different sounds.
David Schaich (he): We first some of the exponential factor
David Schaich (he): I see same factor for energy level, 1 2 3, and so on, all the way up to
David Schaich (he): the So
David Schaich (he): this is the
David Schaich (he): factorization that makes this so simple. We have a complicated
David Schaich (he): which just boils down to L. One different companies of
David Schaich (he): is something that is all the same except for
David Schaich (he): the value of the energy
David Schaich (he): product over all animals. Oh.
David Schaich (he): 120
David Schaich (he): potential.
David Schaich (he): In this case we don't have to worry about the conversions of the geometric series that
David Schaich (he): enforce this requirement for
David Schaich (he): the chemical potential to be less than the energy.
David Schaich (he): you know, constraint on the possible values of the
David Schaich (he): for that
they should be.
David Schaich (he): And as for both the Maxwell wholesome statistics that just to any factor to a single particle partition function.
the correct for all accounting
David Schaich (he): as well as distribution.
David Schaich (he): All 3 of these are
David Schaich (he): given my products.
David Schaich (he): which is reminiscent of
David Schaich (he): what we saw earlier
David Schaich (he): over counting. Going into this, you know we too
David Schaich (he): correct rules.
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): it's.
David Schaich (he): I was briefly to consider what we have
David Schaich (he): clicked.
David Schaich (he): Some of these results that we have
David Schaich (he): derive, save for the grand canonical potential for each of these 3 distributions, and
David Schaich (he): all 3 of these
David Schaich (he): functions of the temperature and chemical potential that characterize
David Schaich (he): as a reminder.
David Schaich (he): This is the analog of the the temperature of the Actually, all in the case was.
David Schaich (he): you call it exponential factors exponentials
David Schaich (he): which, if we break up the water, the product into a sum of laws.
David Schaich (he): recall that
the next one. She was just
David Schaich (he): that's come over just the single exponential factor.
David Schaich (he): It's the Grand Canonical potential for it classical.
David Schaich (he): free energy to it. creating all the potential.
David Schaich (he): the water. This great economical partition function
David Schaich (he): we can
David Schaich (he): invert, so I can break up the
David Schaich (he): The one over X is minus the one that cancels out with the overall I to sign up.
David Schaich (he): So we're then left with just the positive
David Schaich (he): of those that difference in the denominator
David Schaich (he): like this. the exponential factor
David Schaich (he): There' a direct distribution.
We again.
David Schaich (he): you know everything.
David Schaich (he): One for me. Yeah. Potential
is.
David Schaich (he): you are the same as
David Schaich (he): the both Einstein case. Except for the overall negative sign out for us a relative they can assign within each of the turns out to be significant, as we will see.
I just remove it after it.
David Schaich (he): There. Any questions or objections about yeah results that we have collected from yesterday and today.
David Schaich (he): The question I want to
David Schaich (he): pose for us to think about now is.
David Schaich (he): How are these results?
David Schaich (he): I'm not asking, Are they
this place on
David Schaich (he): specifically asking how? Because
David Schaich (he): we can
David Schaich (he): appreciate just from our everyday experience that even though quantum physics that's going into it was on it's time.
Fairly direct
David Schaich (he): distributions
David Schaich (he): governs the University fundamental level.
David Schaich (he): Practical statistics was perfectly good enough for
David Schaich (he): everything that this did. Up until the early twentieth century.
David Schaich (he): So there it is. Hey, here regime in which that classical physics should emerge from the underlying behavior. and
David Schaich (he): in this context the classical physics is here by the the actual wholesale distribution. so that Maxwell. Some have been related to either, or
David Schaich (he): of the quantum distributions, for
David Schaich (he): it was almost.
David Schaich (he): and based on the argument we went through about
David Schaich (he): the different ways of driving.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): taking the single particle partition function to a large power, and correcting for over counting versus going through energy level occupation numbers.
David Schaich (he): We have seen that those 2 approaches are equivalent where
David Schaich (he): there is very little chance of multiple particles trying to
David Schaich (he): hang out with the same energy level. See that a different way.
David Schaich (he): Maybe it number of accessible energy levels is much greater than the number of particles.
David Schaich (he): and then there is little chance of any of those in particles.
David Schaich (he): The same energy level. The over counting is that straightforward factor of one over n factorial that we have seen many times.
David Schaich (he): And then this is the
David Schaich (he): situation or regime where we should expect to see the 2 types of derivations that we have done
David Schaich (he): classical and quantum statistics, all producing the same behavior or the same
David Schaich (he): economical potential, you know the
David Schaich (he): So let's take another step in the house. Now, When is the number of accessible energy levels? What's created in the number of
okay.
David Schaich (he): actually answer that by turning the question on his head, and we call something that we did a few weeks ago.
Yes.
David Schaich (he): it's been
David Schaich (he): the derived internal energy and entropy, or
David Schaich (he): and looked at how those qualities behaved in the limits of high and low temperature.
David Schaich (he): So, in particular that
David Schaich (he): probability, you know, microstates ahead high energy utilities compared to
David Schaich (he): we're exponentially suppressed
David Schaich (he): in practice inaccessible. When you temperature.
David Schaich (he): Whoa! You always say
David Schaich (he): factor of
David Schaich (he): E to the minus energy
David Schaich (he): over team in the
David Schaich (he): and as the temperature gets low, the negative argument to the exponential has a large magnitude, the exponential itself. it goes down to 0. So this is the situation
David Schaich (he): in which. if you're a small number of microstates are accessible.
David Schaich (he): it's effectively the opposite of where we expect classical, the quantum physics to coincide.
David Schaich (he): So, therefore. this is telling us that
David Schaich (he): in order to see classical physics emerge from quantum statistics.
David Schaich (he): high temperature.
David Schaich (he): which we can go ahead and check.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): to check this conclusion that we are making based on
David Schaich (he): some arguments from a few weeks ago. Let's compute
David Schaich (he): something for our 3 distributions with discrete energy levels.
David Schaich (he): and see how the prediction in all 3 cases differ or approach each other
David Schaich (he): in this high temperature limits. So if we look at the average number of particles.
David Schaich (he): the fluctuating we derived yesterday's just given by the negative derivative of the very economical potential. With respect to the chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): it starts
David Schaich (he): 50, an actual host in case
David Schaich (he): we want to.
David Schaich (he): On this expression
David Schaich (he): into the derivative which is
David Schaich (he): fairly simple. There is the negative sign that cancels no real factor of T, a sum over energy levels derivative with respect to the
David Schaich (he): familiar exponential factor which just brings down a positive actor to Beta. which is the in it, cancels out the overall factor of the
David Schaich (he): I'm. Sure. giving us a sum over all of the exponential. which I will go ahead and write as one over
David Schaich (he): in this arguments.
David Schaich (he): a simple exponential
for each of the S.
David Schaich (he): And the reason for doing this will
David Schaich (he): we come up here when we move on to to keep this procedure for. do you? It was on sign that distribution. There is now. No.
David Schaich (he): you know what we think of the derivative
David Schaich (he): persists.
David Schaich (he): We have again some over hell and the derivative, of
David Schaich (he): we log rhythm for each other. Sheet, like all of the
David Schaich (he): 0
David Schaich (he): and the numerator. We go through the chain rule and we'll pick up a
David Schaich (he): overall factor of the role might assign for having a one minus exponential is a positive. they e to the minus beta energy minus chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): You can be that in temperature. If we
David Schaich (he): you can divide through by this exponential factor.
David Schaich (he): We end up with one over an exponential, with a positive beta
David Schaich (he): minus one.
David Schaich (he): It finally be that
David Schaich (he): through it very direct critical number again difference by a sign
as the same
David Schaich (he): logarithmic structure that brings the argument. Now, what plus e to the minus scale.
David Schaich (he): 30 minus chemical potential
David Schaich (he): exponential factor
cancels out the temperature
David Schaich (he): and gives us so
David Schaich (he): one minus
David Schaich (he): the exponential factor now plus one.
David Schaich (he): So several sanity checks we can immediately make
David Schaich (he): on these results. So
David Schaich (he): first of all. They're all written as sums over energy levels which, given the
David Schaich (he): that we had earlier the number of particles for each micro state.
David Schaich (he): it's just equal to the sum of occupation numbers over energy levels.
David Schaich (he): Like the energy.
David Schaich (he): we can identify this as
David Schaich (he): in each case it some over expectation values with the occupation numbers themselves
David Schaich (he): 3 distributions
David Schaich (he): actual.
David Schaich (he): It's fairly direct
David Schaich (he): to these occupation numbers.
David Schaich (he): Just to you
David Schaich (he): we have get minus one
David Schaich (he): denominator and for
you.
David Schaich (he): So all of these
David Schaich (he): expectation values for the occupation numbers you can check. thanks to
David Schaich (he): yeah
David Schaich (he): exponential function as well as in the bose-einstein case or condition that the energy is greater than the chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): non-negative. And in general positive
David Schaich (he): I can for that for sure. we can also share that
David Schaich (he): occupation number is bounded.
David Schaich (he): It should be given that
David Schaich (he): yeah.
David Schaich (he): only possible values of the So those are a few checks. And
David Schaich (he): all of these results for the occupation numbers.
David Schaich (he): we'll agree
David Schaich (he): where
David Schaich (he): the is being added in the denominator or subtracted, is many more compared to the exponential struggle.
David Schaich (he): We have one over an
David Schaich (he): do you know. i'm just energy minus chemical potential. much greater than one. All of these will a year
David Schaich (he): effectively the same value in that value
David Schaich (he): no longer needs a label. is going to be much less than one by having that very large factor.
the nominator.
David Schaich (he): This is also a sanity check, because it reproduces what we said
David Schaich (he): just a few minutes ago, arguing more
David Schaich (he): conceptually rather than mathematically. that we should look for agreement between classical and quantum physics when the number of accessible energy levels is much greater than the number
particles.
David Schaich (he): which is the same as saying that the you occupation number the number of particles in each energy level is going to be a very small No.
David Schaich (he): So all of this makes sense.
David Schaich (he): except for one thing.
David Schaich (he): which is that
David Schaich (he): argument to this exponential saying that
David Schaich (he): classical is
David Schaich (he): energy minus chemical potential. large number. To give a large exponential factor. This you already before
David Schaich (he): the high temperature
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): on initial inspection it does not the height. Remember, the temperature is one over data, or it is whatever temperature. So for a high temperature you would have
David Schaich (he): bigger going to 0.
David Schaich (he): And if we
David Schaich (he): fix the the of the chemical potential and
David Schaich (he): energy for a given energy level. So that's right. One of the
David Schaich (he): records is fixed. High temperature seems to correspond to
David Schaich (he): 0, which we want to be much greater than one.
David Schaich (he): you know. In these 3 expressions it's
David Schaich (he): be the times that difference in parentheses not too far. In each of these 3 occupation numbers
David Schaich (he): you will see that
David Schaich (he): exponential factor approaching one E to the 0. In this my high temperature limits being a one to 0 with a fixed energy lines, chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): That's what this occupation number would be around. What was that?
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): One over one plus one, and it goes to 0 about half. And it.
if you go sign sign case.
David Schaich (he): we approach whatever one minus one. So we occupation number that actually the
David Schaich (he): which does not look anything at all like the classical limit that we had to find by
David Schaich (he): demanding that these 3 results
David Schaich (he): do the same.
David Schaich (he): The way out of this, you might already have guessed, is
David Schaich (he): to recognize that we do 2 things when thinking about the high temperature. First we took the temperature large, be it to 0, but then we fixed
David Schaich (he): difference between the energy and the chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): and really the high temperature that we should be considering.
I'll call the true
David Schaich (he): the temperature and negative chemical potential to simultaneously in such a way such that that negative chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): you remember the chemical potential that needs to be much larger than the temperature which itself needs to be much larger than
David Schaich (he): the relevant micro state Energies are sorry to you. energy levels.
David Schaich (he): and we can
David Schaich (he): appreciate that what is going on in this double what
to
David Schaich (he): agreement between classical
physics.
David Schaich (he): The very high temperature is
David Schaich (he): making all of these microstate probabilities. More likely it's suppressing the energies
David Schaich (he): that would otherwise exponentially suppress
the
David Schaich (he): larger number of
David Schaich (he): accessible energy levels.
David Schaich (he): What might happen if we took just maybe to 0 the high temperature limit
David Schaich (he): without adjusting the chemical potential is that we to end up with more and more particles, trying to fill those energy levels that are picking up a more than a probability from our distribution.
David Schaich (he): So the other aspect of this limit.
David Schaich (he): Chemical potential to more and more negative films is. I'm. Sure it does. Fewer particles are available to feel the energy levels
accessible
David Schaich (he): to get back to the situation of it. Very small occupation numbers where there is a
David Schaich (he): good chance that all the particles are in different energy levels, and therefore, over counting.
David Schaich (he): coming from you classical. It
David Schaich (he): is just you, in my view.
David Schaich (he): in factorial labels between here.
correct
David Schaich (he): as we have been, this problem.
David Schaich (he): or we first introduced the distinction between distinguishable.
So
David Schaich (he): back in
David Schaich (he): in the So you can now get back to this diagram that I had on the screen at the start just to touch the focus of projector for today. which is showing
David Schaich (he): what we just computed
David Schaich (he): expectation value for the occupation number of an arbitrary
David Schaich (he): energy level, some given value of the energy and will be where it's also access. We have this combination of data times, the energy minus chemical potential that goes into
David Schaich (he): the exponential factors. So this block is just showing up these 3
David Schaich (he): distributions. Yeah, we compute it
David Schaich (he): where you can immediately see
David Schaich (he): that's where this combination is large, much greater than one. We do
good agreement between
David Schaich (he): the classical of actual Boltzmann distribution in both both sides, and fairly direct distributions for
David Schaich (he): the 2 different types of call to particles.
David Schaich (he): the incorrect high temperature limit. Look at at first
0 of fixing
David Schaich (he): difference between energy and capital
sure
David Schaich (he): would have given us this
David Schaich (he): vertical line at 0 on the X Axis.
David Schaich (he): where, as we saw.
David Schaich (he): actual Boltzmann distribution was around one.
David Schaich (he): I know.
David Schaich (he): and distribution is actually in that limit.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): you can also see. So this is
David Schaich (he): the true classical high temperature.
David Schaich (he): This is what time is your regime where
David Schaich (he): there are enormous differences between
David Schaich (he): all 3 of the distributions that we have
David Schaich (he): compute it.
David Schaich (he): we can confirm that the very direct distribution of approaches is
David Schaich (he): upper bound. Here every single
David Schaich (he): energy level is occupied.
There is
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): The expectation value for the occupation numbers approaching the maximum possible.
Tell you what one
David Schaich (he): The Maxwell holes in the classroom to 6 in the week time are increasing exponentially scale of this
David Schaich (he): figure. and the distribution has actually been published.
David Schaich (he): This combination, Beta Times E minus mu approaches 0, which corresponds to the violation of our condition for the convergence of the geometric sequence
David Schaich (he): that the
David Schaich (he): chemical potential is always less than
David Schaich (he): the energy in which, with a positive temperature. we demand
David Schaich (he): that the both sides and distribution be restricted only to positive values
David Schaich (he): on this figure. So this is a nice visual summary of the 3 distributions we have come up with on the basis of discrete energy levels.
David Schaich (he): 2 quantum distributions for and then
David Schaich (he): classical Maxwell Austin distribution
David Schaich (he): 800 compact summary of the ways. All those different systems
David Schaich (he): differ, and also approach each other in the classic.
David Schaich (he): So that is essentially a good place to stop. We have 10 min left just a bit of a preview of all of the uses
you know, focus on after the break. For now, though.
David Schaich (he): are there any questions about the quantum statistics in general. as we have
David Schaich (he): deciding on the fly, how much of it Look at how we do it, and how
David Schaich (he): I don't want to go through this. Given that we go.
David Schaich (he): We need a reminder when we come back from the
David Schaich (he): quick preview.
David Schaich (he): These quantum gases are going to be our main application of the and in order to
David Schaich (he): with the
David Schaich (he): quantum statistics. Yes. we just finished discussing.
David Schaich (he): All we want to do is
David Schaich (he): determine the
David Schaich (he): energies. Yes. we're going to the grand canonical partition functions in the quasi- now use the energy before
David Schaich (he): the energy levels of the relevant systems that we can. The grand canonical partition function for for
David Schaich (he): the
you would consider it
David Schaich (he): 2,
David Schaich (he): many cases, one of which is almost
David Schaich (he): something.
Yeah, with that before
David Schaich (he): in classical ideas.
Yeah, since
David Schaich (he): these 2 cases are
David Schaich (he): yeah.
David Schaich (he): the opposite ultra relativistic particles. So or not all this the case. the contribution to the energy problem.
David Schaich (he): Each part of the goal with Mass M is the usual momentum square over 2. M.
David Schaich (he): That's piece. and we have going through the exercise of
David Schaich (he): discretizing these energies. They can energy levels in terms of.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): to seek into your back to
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): where. when change that we you to make it a quantum context is that each of these components Oh. it's 3, hecta. K.
David Schaich (he): Now with no one. It starts capital from 0.
David Schaich (he): It has a new value of Yeah.
We can go from there once and so on.
David Schaich (he): The motivation for this my motivation, but the requirement for this is actually coming from a piece of quantum physics. I expect you to
David Schaich (he): seeing in detail which is known as the
David Schaich (he): uncertainty principle
David Schaich (he): which states roughly that
David Schaich (he): precision with which it is possible to know the position of a part
or x in any one of the
David Schaich (he): pretty special dimensions is. how do you get to the precision with which.
David Schaich (he): in that direction the product of it? Those 2,
David Schaich (he): this to be
David Schaich (he): larger than roughly each part of it.
There's a 2 in high.
David Schaich (he): We don't care about in our approach for discretizing momenta and energies.
David Schaich (he): We put ideal gas in a box of
the queue.
David Schaich (he): which means that we know
David Schaich (he): precision with which we can
David Schaich (he): location of the particle is
David Schaich (he): at most. It is somewhere in that box which we then rearrange is that the preceding
which is
David Schaich (he): use
David Schaich (he): and a minimum H bar over L.
David Schaich (he): Precisely what we get? I will borrow it the surprise calculation
David Schaich (he): if You' to it.
The components of this cave
David Schaich (he): start from one
0. So this means to
David Schaich (he): somewhat different counting of the energy levels that will go through a detail after the break. Now just state probably this on the other screen
David Schaich (he): particle mass approaching 0. We deal with masses, particles like photons, particles of light.
David Schaich (he): It was not the suite of flames with vanishing mass. and we cannot use the same expression. The that's going to 0 instead.
David Schaich (he): The energy for all the realistic particle is the speed of light. I'm. And the same discretization
David Schaich (he): of the
David Schaich (he): corresponding integer. Vector K.
That same
David Schaich (he): one
David Schaich (he): and the
David Schaich (he): square
David Schaich (he): your product.
David Schaich (he): and we will see that
David Schaich (he): it is most convenient in
David Schaich (he): the case of all the relativistic
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): It's.
David Schaich (he): We are
David Schaich (he): here. it's, interpreted as what's called a wave number.
David Schaich (he): the inverse of the length of the way for the so. If we look at the inverse K, we have to twice the volume
David Schaich (he): that gives us the
David Schaich (he): all times
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): the you
David Schaich (he): the relation between that what we you like, and
David Schaich (he): frequency of each wave crossing over some details
David Schaich (he): going through too much right here now.
David Schaich (he): and the frequency in terms of 2 high radians, or the rotational frequency
David Schaich (he): related by the speed of light.
David Schaich (he): So the angular frequency is the continuous analog of the integer. We have Number K.
David Schaich (he): This into
David Schaich (he): gives us the equals H. Bar Omega. We are large energies correspond to large frequencies for small.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): yeah.
David Schaich (he): high frequency.
David Schaich (he): This is No. He has
David Schaich (he): ultraviolet regime.
David Schaich (he): Small energies correspond to
David Schaich (he): low frequencies and
David Schaich (he): sure
David Schaich (he): regime.
David Schaich (he): just based on the connection between
David Schaich (he): visible light and the wavelength of that point.
David Schaich (he): That is probably a detail we should come back to after the break collection of ingredients that you.
but to use
David Schaich (he): driving
David Schaich (he): quantum gases
David Schaich (he): too extreme in the cases.
David Schaich (he): No.
David Schaich (he): So we will
David Schaich (he): briefly summarize these basic ingredients. You're back next month just to confirm
David Schaich (he): that I mentioned
David Schaich (he): of an overall statistic particle becomes more this energy becomes well, the frequency becomes low.
I temperature
David Schaich (he): other direction.
David Schaich (he): I'm sure the energy and frequency
David Schaich (he): so hopefully that it's made you excited to see how all this feeds into partition, functions.
David Schaich (he): entropy, energy, and all the rest. Once we get back
David Schaich (he): from the break, which I will take a break for the rest of the day, unless there are any final questions.